# Release Notes

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

## [1.6.0] - 2023-02-13

### New

- Added [support of Signature ID](https://github.com/tonlabs/ever-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) on the networks with 
  `CapSignatureWithId` capability enabled.
- Added new option `everdev contract deploy --workchain` to specify in which workchain to deploy a contract.
- `everdev contract decode-tvc` command renamed to `everdev contract decode-stateinit`.
- Add a reference to stable solc and sold versions to the output of the 
  `everdev sold version` and `everdev sol version` commands.

### Fixed

- Double error messages generated by `everdev sol compile` command.
- Error: `unrecognized option '-i` which occurred when using a solidity compiler version below 0.57.0
- The "constructor" function excluded from the list of callable functions
- Incorrect `GiverV1.abi.json` file has been replaced with the correct one.

## [1.5.1] - 2022-12-23

### New

- Include network giver account details in `network info <network>` command.
- Giver's signer must be specified explicitly (default network signer will not be used).
- Include EverNode SE Default Giver Keys to signers repository.
- Solidity compiler accepts file name without extension. 
- `network giver` parameters `signer` and `type` are mandatory.

### Fixed

- Some `contract` commands failed with `Wait for operation failed` message in case 
  when account does not exist.
- Changing SE GraphQL port did not affect network endpoints related to this SE container.
- Contract commands that expects contract file name as an arg will report more detailed 
  error message in case when contract file does not exist.

## [1.5.0] - 2022-12-23

### New

- Support for `*.tsol` extension in Solidity compiler.
- Ability to specify contract arguments from json files in form of `@file` or `@file@field`.

## [1.4.1] - 2022-11-16

### Fixed

- Versions of dependency packages have been increased: @eversdk/core and @eversdk/appkit.\
  The old ones caused unclear error messages.

- Added an error message if the `network/registry.json` configuration file is corrupted.

## [1.4.0] - 2022-10-19

### New

- `sold` - [Solidity Compiler Driver](https://github.com/tonlabs/TON-Solidity-Compiler/tree/master/sold) - version management added. Try it with `everdev sold install`. 

- Added a new `everdev sol compile` option `-i [ --include-path ] path/to/dir` to make an additional source directory available 
  to the default import callback.\
  Use this option if you want to import contracts, whose location is not fixed in relation to your main source tree, 
  e.g. third-party libraries installed using a package manager. Separate different paths with a comma, no space allowed.

  Example: `everdev sol compile Contract.sol -i path1/folder1,path2/folder2`

- Added new command `evedev update`.\
  This command updates everdev to the latest version and is technically an alias for `npm update -g everdev`.


### Fixed

- Fixed incorrect error message when "deploy contract" and "execute contract" commands are executed for a non-existing (acc_type = nonExist) account.

- Fixed incorrect error message when a user added a new signer with the name of an existing one.

## [1.3.1] - 2022-09-21

### New

- Build with new version sdk 1.37.2

## [1.3.0] - 2022-08-31

### New

-   Added command `everdev network credentials`, to set credentials for network authentication, with options:

```
    --project, -p     Your project ID
    --access-key, -k  Your secret or JWT token
    --clear           Clear saved credentials (mutually exclusive with other options)
```

### Fixed

- Fixed  `everdev contract decode-tvc --help` output. 

## [1.2.2] - 2022-07-12

### Fixed

-   Fixed the address calculation error that occurred when running "everdev contract deploy" and entering initial data in dialog mode.


## [1.2.1] - 2022-06-30

### Fixed

-   Fixed an uninformative error message when it occurred in a spawned process.


## [1.2.0] - 2022-05-27

### New

- Add new option `--type` to the `everdev network giver` command.

    If you compiled your own giver, `everdev` may refuse to use it because it doesn't know what interface it implements.

    You can specify which interface your giver implements by specifying the --type = GiverV1 | GiverV2 | GiverV3 | SecureMultiSigWallet | SetcodeMultisigWallet

-   Add new sub command "everdev contract decode-data file [options]". This command decodes data from a contract deployed on the network.
    For example:

    ```
    $ everdev contract decode-data HelloWallet.abi.json  -a 0:783abd8b2cbcc578397d8d15ae8293688a87da15a052a993cfb51cbd3e6452a3
    Decoded account data: {
        "data": {
            "_pubkey": "0x95c06aa743d1f9000dd64b75498f106af4b7e7444234d7de67ea26988f6181df",
            "_timestamp": "1653482490973",
            "_constructorFlag": true,
            "timestamp": "1653482492"
        }
    }
    ```

-   Add new sub command "everdev contract decode-tvc file". This command decodes TVC into code, data, libraries and special options.
    For example:

    ```
    $ everdev contract decode-tvc HelloWallet.tvc
    Decoded TVC: {
      "code": "te6ccPKo3tM/AfhDIbnytCD4I4ED6KiCCBt3QKC58rT4Y9MfAfgjvPK50x8B2zzyPAYDA0rtRNDXScMB+GYi0NcLA6k4ANwhxwDjAiHXDR/yvC==',
      "code_hash": "7a588d25395138fa12f9fd358b2383922b80a2dcbc973cd437723b4d96c9ae13",
      "data": "te6ccgEBAgEAKAABAcABAEPQAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAg",
      "data_hash": "55a703465a160dce20481375de2e5b830c841c2787303835eb5821d62d65ca9d",
      ----%<------------------------
      "compiler_version": "sol 0.61.0"
    }
    ```

### Improved

- For "everdev sol compile" and "everdev clang compile" commands, you can specify a variable number of input files, for example:
    ```
    $ everdev sol compile Contract1.sol Contract2.sol Contract3.sol  # It works
    $ everdev sol compile *.sol  # It works too
    ```


## [1.1.2] - 2022-05-12
### Fixed
 - Updated Ever OS Cloud endpoints.
 - Updated the C++ contract example for use with the latest (7.7.35) clang compiler.

## [1.1.1] - 2022-02-11
### Fixed
 - An error "TON Client binary bridge is not set"  that occurred when using `js wrap` command as a module

### Improved
 -  Command parameter parsing when using tondev as a module. 
    Now, when some unrecognized option is found, an error occurs.
    Previously unrecognized option was silently skipped.

## [1.1.0] - 2022-02-09
### New
 - If a new version of everdev is available, then the user who executes any `everdev` command will be
   informed about it (no more than once a day)

### New
 - `sol info` command shows the file path for installed components

### Fixed
- `sol compile` command no longer suppresses warnings


## [1.0.0] - 2021-12-24
### New
The utility has a new name `everdev`!

Install it with `npm i -g everdev`

If you already have `tondev` installed and want to clone its configuration, copy `$HOME/.tondev` into the `$HOME/.everdev` directory.


## [0.11.2] - 2021-12-15
### Fixed
- `sol ast` command options

## [0.11.1] - 2021-12-07
### NEW
- `sol ast` command that parses a ton-solidity file and creates an abstract syntax tree (AST) to the output directory

### Fixed
- ssh2 transitive dependency on dockerode

## [0.11.0] - 2021-12-03
### NEW
- Structure can be passed as an argument of a function call, for example:
```
tondev contract run shapes.tvc \
    --address 0:540c1837656674d548c934258ddec9b5fd11b543da977b0016c14b5650bc7eb5 \
    --input '{ "point": { "color": "red", "center": { "x": 1, "y": 2 } } }'
```

### Improved
- Information about the installed version of stdlib has been removed from the output of the `tondev sol version` command.
Now its version is always equal to the compiler's version.
- Remove checking of .sol extension in `compile` command. Any extension can be used now. 


## [0.10.5] - 2021-11-11
### NEW
- Added the ability to compile [SafeMultisigWallet](https://github.com/tonlabs/ton-labs-contracts/tree/master/solidity/safemultisig) for Linux platform. The size of the compiled contract will be different from the original due to a different linker, but the compiler is the same

Install the appropriate compiler, linker, and stdlib versions:
```
tondev sol set -c 0.21.0
tondev sol set -s 0.21.0
tondev sol set -l 0.1.21
```
Now you can compile SafeMultisigWallet contract:
```
tondev sol compile SafeMultisigWallet.sol
ls -l SafeMultisigWallet.tvc
-rw-rw-r--. 1 4430 Nov 11 22:16 SafeMultisigWallet.tvc
```

## [0.10.4] - 2021-09-27

- `tondev contract run-local` now checks the contract state before execution and generates user friendly error, if contract does not exist or is in uninit or frozen state.

### Improved

- Dependabot cannot update ssh2 to a non-vulnerable version

## [0.10.3] - 2021-09-27

### Fixed

- Dependabot cannot update ssh2 to a non-vulnerable version

- `tondev sol set` can now install any existing binaries by version number, not just one of the last ten

## [0.10.2] - 2021-09-24

### Fixed

- `tondev signed add <seed-phase>` didn't store seed phrase in signer registry.

## [0.10.1] - 2021-09-17

### Fixed

- Build with new typescript version 
- lib-node's bridge crashed on `client.close()`

## [0.10.0] - 2021-09-10

### New

- Added new option `--code, -c` for solidity compiler to save `*.code` file.
   Example: `tondev sol compile --code hello.sol`

## [0.9.0] - 2021-08-20

### New
- [Extraton Debot Browser](https://github.com/extraton/debrowser) supported! Now you can test your debots in web with ease - even offline. Just run SE and Extraton Debot Browser together. They perfectly fit! 

### Improved
- We changed the prepay logic of deploy operation. Account is not prepaid automatically from the giver any more. Now you need to specify -v <VALUE> explicitly. Get predictible behaviour and results!
- Error messages in case of insufficiant balance were improved. 
  
### Fixed
- An error that occurred when a contract was deployed to an account with a positive balance less than the default (10 tokens) and Giver was not set properly.

## [0.8.1] - 2021-07-26

### Fixed
- problem with contracts/ folder

## [0.8.0] - 2021-07-26

### New
- `value` option of the `contract` commands can accept values with "t" suffix.
  Such values will be properly converted to nano tokens.
- `run-signer` option of the the `contract` commands allows to sign messages with alternative keys different from `signer` meanwhile address is still calculated from `signer` parameter (or from default `signer`). It should be useful for `run-local` (with `None` value) so that it is not needed to specify address explicitly any more.
- `tondev` commands that produce files (e.g. `sol create`) create output folders if required.
- `tondev signer add` command's `secret` option can accept a path to the keys file.
- `tondev se set` options `image` and `container` allow use existing docker 
  images and containers to register SE instances.
- `tondev se delete` deletes registered SE instance from `tondev` SE registry.
- `--version` or `-v` or `-V` global option prints current tondev version.

### Fixed
- "tondev clang set --compiler" didn't change installed compiler version https://github.com/tonlabs/tondev/issues/42
- `tondev` did not not fill the command args with default values when user ran commands programmatically.  
- `tondev info` stopped if one of the tools failed.

### Improved
- In case of errors with giver `tondev` prints new detailed errors describing 
  that there is a giver problem (not in users contract). 
- Component version table prints "not installed" text if some component is missing. Footnote about on demand installation is added.
- Account balance check is added before deploy.
- All commands that require abi file (e.g. `js wrap`) now accepts any input file name. 
- `tondev se version` now prints version from the latest to the eldest order.
- `tondev sol compile` now hides linker output in case of success.

## [0.7.4] - 2021-06-25

### New

- Column `used` was added to  `signer list` with reference to the giver that uses this signer;
- Column `giver` was added to `network list` with information about giver's contract and signer.
- Printed tables now supports multiline cell values.

### Fixed

- "Error: Signer not found:" in case when the default signer has upper letters in name.
- Giver didn't use default signer. From now the giver uses default signer when User calls the `network giver` command without `--signer` option. 

## [0.7.3] - 2021-06-03

### Fixed
- Incorrect parsing initial data params with options `--data, -d`.

## [0.7.2] - 2021-06-02

### Fixed
- Update README with information about how to install tondev after download binaries

## [0.7.1] - 2021-06-01

### Fixed
- GitHub Action

## [0.7.0] - 2021-05-26

### New
- Added new option `--output-dir, -o` for solidity compiler to store `*.abi.json` and `*.tvc` files in a separate directory.
   Example: `tondev sol compile hello.sol -o ~/assets`
- Created standalone portable binaries for windows, macos, linux

## [0.6.0] - 2021-04-28

### New
- `ts4` [TestSuite4](README.md#testsuite4) framework for contract testing is supported: install, manage versions, create test template, run tests.

## [0.5.0] - 2021-04-23

### New
- `clang` controller for [C++ compiler](https://github.com/tonlabs/TON-Compiler):   
  install, compile with 1 command, manage versions, etc.   
- `signer` controller for signer registry management:   
  generate keys, import keys and mnemonics, specify default signer, etc.   
- `network` controller for network registry management:   
  add networks, configure network giver, specify default network, etc.   
- `contract` controller for contract management:   
- get contract info summary, top up balance, deploy, run, run-local, run-executor   
- `tondev js wrap` generates `code` and `codeHash` fields in addition to `tvc`.   
- `tondev contract info` prints code hash.   
- `tondev info` command prints a summary information from all controllers.   
- short aliases for controllers, commands and options.   
  For example instead of using `tondev network list`    
  you can use `tondev n l` and even shorter `tondev nl`.   

### Fixed

- `tvm_linker` downloads always even if it's up to date.

## [0.4.0] - 2021-03-25

### New

- [`--force` option](README.md#update-1) for `sol update` and `sol set` commands.
  If set then components will be reinstalled event if their version hasn't changed.
- [`js wrap` command](README.md#create-contract-js-wrapper) generates JS wrapper file from ABI file and optional TVC file. 
- `help` command prints documentation about variants of command options, like [here](#README.md#create-contract-js-wrapper) 

## [0.3.3] - 2021-03-16

### Fixed
- Solidity stdlib didn't update.

## [0.3.2] - 2021-03-12

### Fixed
- Support versioning at solidity components

## [0.3.0] - 2021-03-11

### New
- SDK functionality added
  - [See the list of available demo projects](README.md#see-the-list-of-available-demo-projects)
  - [Install demo project](README.md#install-demo-project)
- [tonos-cli](README.md#tonos-cli)
  - Install
  - Version
  - Set
  - Update

## [0.2.0] - 2021-02-26

### New
- [TON OS Startup Edition(SE) functionality](https://github.com/tonlabs/tondev#ton-os-startup-editionse):
  - Start
  - Version
  - Set
  - Reset
  - Update
  - Stop
  - Info
## [0.1.7] – 2021-02-18

### New

- Solidity functionality added:
  - Create a hello world contract in one click
  - Install compiler in the background upon the first request
  - Compile and link a contract in one click
  - Get solidity compiler version
  - Download the latest compiler
- SDK functionality added:
  - Create an empty Node.js project with the latest SDK dependencies and index.js script with main client object creation
